s covered by smoke and a mirror is obscured by dust, just as the embryo rests deep within the womb, wisdom is hidden by selfish desire.
The serenity of mind, gentleness, silence, self-restraint, and the purity of mind are called the austerity of thought.
No one attains perfection by merely giving up work.
All works are being done by the energy and power of nature, but due to delusion of ego people assume themselves to be the doer.
Man is made by his belief. As he believes, so he is.
The disunited mind is far from wise; how can it meditate? How be at peace? When you know no peace, how can you know joy?
The mind is restless and difficult to restrain, but it is subdued by practice.
There is nothing lost or wasted in this life.
People will talk about your disgrace forever. To the honored, dishonor is worse than death.
To the illumined man or woman, a clod of dirt, a stone, and gold are the same.
Creation is only the projection into form of that which already exists.
Knowledge, the object of knowledge and the knower are the three factors which motivate action; the senses, the work and the doer comprise the threefold basis of action.
Better indeed is knowledge than mechanical practice. Better than knowledge is meditation. But better still is surrender of attachment to results, because there follows immediate peace.
Fear not what is not real, never was and never will be. What is real, always was and cannot be destroyed.
Whatever I am offered in devotion with a pure heart - a leaf, a flower, fruit, or water - I accept with joy.
A man's own self is his friend. A man's own self is his foe.
Consciousness is eternal it is not vanquished with the destruction of the temporary body
The wise should not unsettle the mind of the ignorant who is attached to the fruits of work.
Unnatural work produces too much stress.
Much better to do one's own work even if you have to do it imperfectly than it is to do somebody elses work perfectly.
A Self-realized person does not depend on anybody [except God] for anything.
Even as a tortoise draws in its limbs, the wise can draw in their senses at will.
For he who has no tranquility there is no concentration.
The foods that promote longevity, virtue, strength, health, happiness, and joy; are juicy, smooth, substantial, and agreeable to the stomach.
When meditation is mastered, the mind is unwavering like the flame of a lamp in a windless place.
There is neither Self-knowledge nor Self-perception to those whose senses are not under control. Without Self-perception there is no peace; and without peace there can be no happiness.
Living in solitude, eating lightly, controlling the thought, word, and deed; ever absorbed in yoga of meditation, and taking refuge in detachment.
He who, before he leaves his body, learns to surmount the promptings of desire and anger is a saint and is happy.
The serenity of mind, gentleness, silence, self-restraint, and the purity of mind are called the austerity of thought.
Acquire this transcendental knowledge by humble reverence, by sincere inquiry, and by service.
For certain is death for the born And certain is birth for the dead; Therefore over the Thou shouldst not grieve.
If due to ego you think: I shall not fight; this resolve of yours is vain. Your own nature will compel you.
Action is the product of the Qualities inherent in Nature.
You alone know Yourself by Yourself.
I am silence among the secrets, and the Self-knowledge of the knowledgeable.
Filled with insatiable desires, hypocrisy, pride, and arrogance; holding wrong views due to delusion; they act with impure motives.
The sage awakes to light in the night of all creatures. That which the world calls day is the night of ignorance to the wise.
The body is mortal, but the person dwelling in the body is immortal and immeasurable.
When you move amidst the world of sense, free from attachment and aversion alike, there comes the peace in which all sorrows end, and you life in the wisdom of the Self.
The body is mortal, but the person dwelling in the body is immortal and immeasurable.
On this path effort never goes to waste, and there is no failure. Even a little effort toward spiritual awareness will protect you from the greatest fear.
They all attain perfection When they find joy in their work.
When the senses contact sense objects, a person experiences cold or heat, pleasure or pain. These experiences are fleeting they come and go. Bear them patiently.
Alas! We are ready to commit a great sin by striving to slay our kinsmen because of greed for the pleasures of the kingdom.
I am the sweet fragrance in the earth. I am the heat in the fire, the life in all living beings, and the austerity in the ascetics.
You grieve for those who are not worthy of grief, and yet speak the words of wisdom. The wise grieve neither for the living nor for the dead.
There was never a time when I, you, or these kings did not exist; nor shall we ever cease to exist in the future.
Renunciation of the fruit of work is better than meditation.
Even without your participation all the warriors standing arrayed in the opposing armies shall cease to exist.
I am rich and born in a noble family. I am the greatest. I shall perform sacrifice, I shall give charity, and I shall rejoice. Thus deluded by ignorance
One attains the highest perfection by devotion to one's natural work. Listen to Me how one attains perfection while engaged in natural work.
The enlightened one should inspire others by performing all works efficiently without attachment.
Those who are devoid of attachment, whose mind is fixed in knowledge, all deeds of such liberated persons dissolves away.
Even the wise are confused about what is action and what is inaction.
The true nature of action is very difficult to understand. Therefore, one should know the nature of attached action, the nature of detached action, and also the nature of forbidden action.
Detached action is unselfish work.
Everything has been accomplished in this very life by those whose mind is set in equality.
The wise do not rejoice in sensual pleasures.
The deluded ones, who restrain their organs of action but mentally dwell upon the sense enjoyment, are called hypocrites.
You should perform your duty [with apathetic frame of mind] with a view to guide people and for the universal welfare.
Because, whatever noble persons do, others follow. Whatever standard they set up, the world follows.
Scarcely one out of thousands of persons strives for perfection of Self-realization.
Hold the waist, spine, chest, neck, and head erect, motionless and steady, fix the eyes and the mind steadily between the eye brows, and do not look around.
Treating pleasure and pain, gain and loss, victory and defeat alike, engage yourself in your duty. By doing your duty this way you will not incur sin.
Adhering to this view these lost souls, with small intellect and cruel deeds, are born as enemies for the destruction of the world.
Bound by hundreds of ties of desire and enslaved by lust and anger; they strive to obtain wealth by unlawful means for the fulfillment of desires.
Knowledge is better than mere ritualistic practice.
I believe You are the imperishable, the Supreme to be realized. You are the ultimate resort of the universe.
The light of all lights, He is said to be beyond darkness.
Some perceive God in the heart by the intellect through meditation.
The Self is present equally in all beings.
Hypocrisy, arrogance, pride, anger, harshness, and ignorance; these are the marks of those who are born with demonic qualities, O Arjuna.
